What’s past is prologue; what’s future
is epilogue. This, right here, is maybe Chapter Four or Five.

Welcome to Night Vale.

Today’s top news is the screaming
vortex that opened up in the Night Vale Mall food court, completely
obliterating Ice Cream on a Stick, Lucy Tropic’s Fried Ice Cream, and
Mario’s Very Authentic Italian Ice Cream Sub Sandwiches, while doing
significant damage to American Teddy’s Ice Cream and Falafel.

American Teddy’s owner, Teddy Rajal,
said that this is the worst case of food court vortex that Night Vale
has seen in decades. And then he started hollering about the figures
he could see approaching from within the depths of the vortex, and…

Uh, I’m sorry, but…I’m getting some
weird feedback in my headphones. Um…just some slight technical
difficulties. Uhh, let me see if any of these wires are loose, and
I’ll get right back to this important story.

Um, oh, oh, OK. Uh, this one looks a
little loose; I’ll just wiggle it a bit…

 …started hopping up and
down joyously about the figures he could see approaching from within
the depths of…


Oh, no.


Hello? Is there a new friend on the air with me? This is Kevin in
Desert Bluffs.


We know who you are, Kevin. And another thing, just because you have
decided to name the other desert world that you are living in Desert
Bluffs, doesn’t make it the town of Desert Bluffs! That’s not how
names work! You couldn’t just start calling me Cecil 

 and have that suddenly
be my name.


Wow! You have so much passion! What a passionate individual you are!
Cecil 

,
is it?


Delightful. But to your, um, point, while where I live is definitely
a desert, I don’t know what would make it 


than your world, and I didn’t call this town Desert Bluffs, someone
much older and smarter than me, I’m sure, did that. And I’m glad they
did, because you couldn’t ask for a better home town than the Bluffs.


What a stupid name! Night Vale is way better name by any measure. For
instance, I like it more. By any measure.


That’s disappointing news. But I’ve never heard of any place called
“Night Vale.” I can’t imagine anyone disliking us here in Desert
Bluffs.


What do you mean, you’ve never heard of Night Vale? You and that evil
corporation StrexCorp tried to take over Night Vale 


recently.


StrexCorp? That faux friendly big business corporate monster? Don’t
talk to me about them. StrexCorp is 

!
Strex has been buying up a few of the businesses here in Desert
Bluffs, and I am 


happy about it. It makes me very unhappy to be unhappy. I’m much
happier being happy.

No.
Strex is against everything I believe in. Community, radio, community
radio, government intervention in the world, world government
intervention, secret police, and, of course, adorable cats!


I 


cats!


Who 


love cats? Heartless people, that’s who. Monsters without the
capacity for love. 

,
Cecil! That’s who doesn’t love cats.


Wow! You’re way nicer than I remembered.


I want to represent my town well. We’re decent people here. Good
people, sharing what we have: a watchful and oppressive government
keeping us safe from ourselves and others, children playing in the
schools, working hard in paramilitary clubs, and marching with crisp,
clean uniforms in parades.


Wait…your marching band has crisp, clean uniforms? But that hasn’t
been true since the…


Is it possible that somehow I am getting a radio signal from Desert
Bluffs all the way back from before the incident?


I…have no idea what any of that meant, but it sounded terrifying.


So, you don’t like Strex?


Of course not! But don’t worry, we won’t let them get too powerful.
Not here in the Bluffs.


Uh, please stop calling it that.


Sure. We’re all united on keeping StrexCorp just a small local
business here in the Bluffs.


It’s so 


to hear this version of you! Uh, I– I don’t know how this stray
signal ended up in this where and when, but…here it is! This “you”
before everything that happens that makes you…whatever you become.


Wow! Sounds like I have some fun stuff to look forward to once I kick
StrexCorp out of town. You know they’ve been trying to buy the radio
station? Can you imagine how 


that would be? They’d probably try to take me off the air, and
replace me with someone else. Or, worse, try to change my personality
completely. Oh! I would 


let that happen. I would 


Kevin. Kevin! I don’t think he can hear me anymore.


You don’t think 


can hear you anymore?


Oh, thank the lights in the sky, Kevin. You’re still there. I need to
warn you about Strex.


Warn me? About Strex? Why would you ever need to warn me about an
honest family business like Strex? Why, ever since they bought the
radio station years ago, I’ve learned 


about good business practices, and the value of hard work, and
individual responsibility, and smiling, and destroying the weak, and
eliminating the lazy, and smiling, and smiling, and…smiling.


Oh, no! Uh, I must be getting a radio signal from the much more
recent past.


The warping of linear time is exactly why I don’t trust radio, Cecil.
Especially community radio.


Kevin! What did you become?


I’m just a happy-go-lucky guy! It’s like they say: “Work hard, play
hard. Then work hard again, work hard more, work harder, keep working
hard, have you been working hard enough? Work harder if you want to
live! And then, 

,
play! Play very very very hard.”


Do you remember nothing of the 


that was? The 


that believed in good, healthy things like family, and a caring
totalitarian government?


I…oh! That’s a good question! What 


I remember?


I remember being a real grumpster, just a grouch and a half about
everything! Mister Frowny Face, I’d call myself now, if I were
talking to myself then.


But Strex bought out my radio station, and everything changed for the
better. Ha-ha! Can you believe it, I actually tried to stop them from
buying it! I tried very hard. I put my own body, this fragile thing,
in between the Strex representatives and the entrance to the
building, but they forced their way past me using ethically brutal
methods that left me forever physically changed. What a silly old hen
I was about all that!


Once Strex entered my life and showed me the power of the Smiling
God, why, nothing was the same for me ever again! I felt so much
happier. I did terrible things. I felt so much happier! I tore and
bit and growled…I felt so incredibly happy! My skin rent, blood
drops on the ceiling, someone’s throat hose in my hand! So
deliriously happy!


You know what? Thank you, Cecil, for bringing back such good memories
to me!


I am so, so glad that we drove StrexCorp out of Night Vale.


Oh, that’s not true, Cecil! We only just 


moving into Night Vale. Why, I believe we bought your radio station
only a couple weeks ago?


Oh, that’s because you’re talking to me from my past. Uh, the radio
signal got temporally misplaced, as sometimes happens…obviously. In
the time you’re speaking from, we haven’t led the secret revolution
against Strex yet.


So you’re saying that there will be a secret revolution against
Strex? Hang on, I’m jotting down a few things.


Uhh…um…n– nope! Uh, doesn’t sound right at all! Uh, I think
Strex has 


to be worried about, and should just be relaxed. And complacent.


Cecil! Ha ha ha! Your jokes delight me! He-haha! Just in case,
though, I’m going to send a new supervisor over to Night Vale. Daniel
is fresh off the line in one of our most efficient radio content
manufacturers. You’ll love him. Or, not you 


you 

,
I guess. Hah! Time is weird, isn’t it?


So weird.


Right? Anyway, Daniel will keep a close eye, and if anything seems
wrong, well…me and some StrexCorp executive or another will head
right over to set things right.


Well…umm…


Oh, don’t sound down about yourself! We all make mistakes, Cecil.
Except wonderfully productive StrexCorp, bursting at the seams at the
power of our awesome Smiling God! They don’t make mistakes. And that
is why we’re all grains of sand beneath their feet, the bended neck
at their throne. Isn’t language fun?


Kevin? I already kicked you off my station once. I’m not just going
to sit back while some errant radio waves from the past somehow put
you right back on here. Uh, uh, maybe if I wiggle the wire 

…


Lauren! Lauren, I just heard some interesting ideas about the future
on the– 


He seems to be gone.

Well,
I have some feelings about how that conversation went, but…Carlos
always tells me never to be down on myself about honest mistakes. Not
even 


paradoxical mistakes. He’s…always saying that.


I suppose, now that the technical difficulties are taken care of, I
should give you an update on the screaming vortex at the Night Vale
Mall. You won’t believe what…


Oh, no. Hello?


Cecil! Cecil, old friend! I’m here.


You sound different. When is this radio signal coming from? Uh, when
are you in your life?


I am very old. It has been many years since I last spoke to you. It’s
great to hear your voice again. It’s great to hear 


voice again.


I’ll admit, this is a little exciting. How is the future?


Desolate.


Okay, not what I expected, if I’m honest.


Oh, what StrexCorp and their Smiling God did to my wonderful little
town. What they did to me. I’m not myself anymore. I’m a smile, and a
twitch of the wrist. It has been years, Cecil. I’ve drifted away from
myself. Sometimes I am one me, and then again I am the other. What
they did to the sentient heat trapped temporarily in my body.


Oh, Kevin.


“Kevin.” Even my name is a strange figment. My tongue has
forgotten how to form the word. And once, I was so good with words!


Now I am an ancient thing, withered away by what they did to me all
those years ago. The power of the Smiling God is an endless flow. It
ebbs, like the tides. But, like the tides, it returns.


I think about what I could have been if I had never encountered
Strex. I imagine an entire life without them. It makes me happy. I
picture every detail, I try to live it in real time, but it is only a
slight, sweet fiction, and dissolves like sugar into water.

Oh,
Cecil! I wish you had known me before…before Strex. Before it all,
when I was just a dedicated community radio host like you. I wish you
had– 


But I 


know you, just now, Kevin! You sounded so excited about your town,
about your community…you were so happy! You were 

!


Kevin? Kevin? Kevin!


Listeners, I must find this Kevin again. But first, I must take you
to the weather.

[“

” by 

]


Cecil? Cecil?


Yes, Kevin? I'm– I’m here.


Oh, good, I got you back. Lost you there for a moment.


Anyway, as I was saying, Strex wants to buy the radio station, but
I’ll never let them. I’ll fight them off, Cecil! I’ll defeat them!


Ah, it’s 


version of you.


There is only me, Cecil. I’m the only 


there is! And we’re gearing up to push Strex out. Grandma Josephine,
my oldest friend in town (both meanings of the word), Mayor Pablo
Mitchell, Lawrence Levine out on the Edgertown Development, we have
all had our differences in the past, sure, and we will have our
differences again. We can’t always be happy. But we love each other.
We are a community.


And sure, that community has a beautiful name. I mean, can you think
of a single more beautiful name than Desert Bluffs?


Obviously, any name. Like, 

,


.


But it’s not about the beautiful, beautiful name. It’s about the
people. A town is its people, and the good and the bad of them. And
that is what we are going to fight for. That is what we are going to



for.


Hey, you’re from the future! That means you know how this turns out!


Well, uh, y– y– yes, I do.


So? Do I win? Does everything go just as right as right could be?


… Yes.


You win, Kevin. Everything goes right. You and community radio
prevail. And you are happier than ever. Desert Bluffs is a wonderful
town, and you live happily in it.


Oh! That’s such good news! Thanks for telling me. I can’t wait for
the future to come! Though, I have no choice but to wait, I suppose.
That’s how the future works, scientists keep insisting. Scientists
are the worst, right?


Well, I’m sure I’ll talk to you again at some point in my life.

Until
next time, Cecil. Until next ti– 


Goodbye, Kevin. I wish…


Does it matter?


Listeners, I…what do I say here? I– I wish things could have gone
differently, obviously. That is, obviously, what I wish. But they
didn’t.


What is the use of nostalgia for what didn’t happen when we have to
live with what did? Do I wish the food court at the mall still
existed? Sure. But it doesn’t.


Oh. Right. Sorry, uh, didn’t get a chance to update you. The whole
food court and everyone in it is totally gone now.


Anyway.


A counterpart that never was? A friend that I never had? A life that
was never lived. Could Night Vale and Desert Bluffs have been sister
towns? Was there a moment when that possibility drifted like breath
into frozen air until it wisped away into the cold truth of what
happened?


I don’t know. I heard only what you heard. I know only what you know.
Probably, you know more than me.


Stay tuned next for a feeling in your chest that will never quite sit
right with you again.


And goodnight, Night Vale. Goodnight.